English Subtitle by Do My Best
Advertise your product or brand here
contact www.OpenSubtitles.org today
They say Japan was made by a sword
They say the old gods dipped
the coral blade into the ocean
When they pulled it out
four perfect drops fell back into the sea
those drops became the islands of Japan
I say Japan was made by a handful of brave men
Warriors willing to give their lives
for what seems to have become a forgotten word...
Honor
" The Last Samurai "
Ladies and Gentlemen ... the Winchester
an American leader in all forms of armament
used by the United States Army
celebrates our nation's centenial
by bringing you a true
American hero.
One of our most decorated warriors
this country has ever known...
winner of the medal of honor for
his gallantry on the arena of battle each time.
He's late of the seventh
cavalry and a triumph campaign...
against the most savage of Indian nations.
Ladies and gentlemen. I present to you...
Captain Nathan Algren.
Captain Nathan Algren!
Yes !
Yes!
Please. one moment. thank you.
God damn you. Algren!
Get out of there!
This is your last performance.
you are fired.
Now get out!
Come on!
I'm sick of this. come on!
Yes!
My thanks. Mr. McCabe.
You are too kind.
This. ladies and gents.
is the gun that's winning the west.
I... many's the time.
I found myself...
surrounded by a squad of wrath...
... angry hostiles.
with nothing but this rifle. between me
and their certain and gruesome death.
But let me tell you folks...
the "redman" doesn't fear his enemy.
If He'd had his way.
this scalp of mine will be long gone...
and then there will be a bald man
standing before you today.
Would those poor bastards attack there...
and a little bit more.
Bodies slit about... literally.
after rotted in the sun.
This. ladies and ladies.
73 lever-action...
chamber...
7-shot capacity. accurate at
400 yards. one round per second...
Son. you've seen what this
could do with a man?
It's blown a hole in your daddy 16 inches wide.
It's tragic
This beauty. it kills some
five. six. seven braves...
without ever having to reload.
Note the patented loading port...
and the smooth cocking action.
My thanks.
on behalf of those who died
in the name of better
mechanical amusements...
and commercial opportunities.
Mr. McCabe.
come here to take the orders
God bless you all.
I was seeking out to heat the
flame for the old melodrama.
- You are alive.
- I'm indeed.
You mind. Custer said to me.
"we're going to the Little BigHorn
since I want those weird stuff to
walk into take-up for me."
Now many things happened.
I will tell you what else happened.
I have a good job for the both of us.
God knows specially you're
gonna need one for yourself.
What kind of a job?
The only job you will
think you are loyal. A man's job!
Unless of course you give your heart
in the career in the theater.
Nathan!
You just listen to 'em.
Don't you bother to say.
For a while. it's good to see you.
Nathan Algren. I would like you
to meet Mr. Omura. from Japan.
and his associate. his name
I've given up try to pronounce.
Sit down. please.
Whiskey.
Now Japan's got that in mind
to become a civilized country.
And Mr. Omura here is...
...willing to spend whatever it takes
to hire a wise expert to train their army.
And he prepared a contract
the Emperor grants the U.S...
exclusive rights to supply arms.
I have an agreement with
the Winchester company.
and I am certain that Mr. Omura here
has some concept of what an agreement is.
Your performances for the
Winchester company bring you $25 a week.
We will pay you $400 a month.
$5 for each.
and another $500 when we get the job done.
How many other genuine war heroes
you got lined up?
He's rude
That's how it is here.
A land of cheap traders.
Whiskey.
So . who will be it - training
your boys to fight against?
His name is Kasumoto Moritsu.
He was last Emperor's teacher.
He is a samurai.
Samurai?
The word you might use it as "warrior"
Mr. Omura is familiar...
with our experience in dealing with renegade.
What is it?
It's going to read your book.
Captain Algren studied of a trial. which was a
crucial fact on the defeat of the Cheyennes.
Please excuse
What is funny?
Because...
back together again is so...
...inspiring
Excuse me
Excuse me.
Sorry for this.
This isn't a problem
I'll just talk to him for a minute.
Colonel Bagley.
We contacted you because
you are Captain Algren's superior officer...
and you've assured us of his participation.
I'll do it.
I just need a minute.
Nathan.
I did what I was ordered to do up there.
And I have no remorse.
What did you see through the past behind us?
You want me to kill Jappos?
I will kill Jappos.
I am not asking you to kill anybody. but the enemy...
Kill the enemy if it is Jappo.
Reb. Sioux. Cheyenne...
For 500 bucks a month.
I will kill whoever you want.
But keep one thing in mind...
I'd be happy to kill you for free.
June 12th. 1876.
There is some comfort in the emptiness in the sea.
No past. no future.
And I once am confronted by the
hard truth of the present circumstances.
I have been hired to help supress
the rebellion of another tribal leader.
Apparently. this is the only job
for which I am suited.
I am upset by the ironies of my life.
Yokohama Harbor. 1876
Captain Algren. I presume?
Yes
I presume that good.
How do you do? Simon Graham.
20 years ago. it's sleepy little time.
Now. look at this.
You see. the emperor is mad
for all thing western.
and the Samurais believe
that it's changing too fast.
The ancient and the modern
are at war for the soul of Japan.
So your new employer. Mr. Omura...
is bringing in every western
expert he can get his hands on.
Lawyers of France.
engineers of Germany...
architects of Holland and
now of course. warriors of America.
I came when I was with the British
legation. know. years ago...
I was soon relieved of my position
where I have a long long forest of
tendencies to tell the truth...
in a country where they never say what they need.
So now. I very accurately
translate the other people's lives.
For 2000 years. no Emperor
was even seen by a commoner.
You have to realise
this accidental chance is an honor.
This is all highly ritualism. of course.
You may look at him.
but do not speak.
Unless you are spoken to. obviously.
If he stands. you must bow.
If he bows. you must bow lower.
Do I look presentable?
I've wantoned a decade...
...on the smart round midgets.
and bow
The Emperor Meiji bids you welcome.
He's grateful for the assistance your country offers.
We hope to accomplish the same
national harmony you enjoy in your homeland.
The Emperor is most interested
in the American indians.
If you have fought against them in battle?
We have. Your Highness.
The red man is brutal ass.
The Emperor wishes to ask Captain
Algren if it is truth that...
they wear eagle feathers and paint their
faces before going into battle.
and then they have no fear.
They are very brave.
Bow
Thank you very much.
Step back
step back..step back and turn.
All right. you little bastards.
you should stand up straight in a line...
or I will passionately shit-kick
every one of you sad parade.
let it be before my eyes.
Well done. Sergeant.
When you understand the language.
everything is as fast as it takes place.
The first right you'll know:
rifles at the ready.
The second right...
July 27th. 1876. For six months of
work. I'm to receive...
...3 years of a Captain's pay.
teaching oriental soldiers.
They are army of conscription...
most of them are peasants.
who have never seen a gun.
Fire!
They are led by General Hasegawa...
a man of small stature and nonetheless
commands enormous respect.
What can General tell me
about this man. this samurai...
-Katsumoto.
He seems to have great knowledge
of Katsumoto. his rebellion.
I'll count on his help
when facing this samurai.
Who supply them with weapons?
Katsumoto no longer dishonours
himself by using firearms.
He uses no firearms?
Those honor the old way.
Katsumoto is a hero.
How well does he know this man?
Well. the General and Katsumoto
fought together for the Emperor.
He fought with the samurai?
He is a samurai.
You have to understand Katsumoto
pledged the sword to defend the Emperor.
They say the samurai's sword is his soul.
They are paradoxical people. samurai.
I've tried to write a book about them for years...
I seeked in vain to approach them close.
The bastards still wear armor.
Yes. when the Irishes' still
comporting themselves in rolling course.
He's characterized them as the most
sophisticated warriors on earth.
I need more detailed
information of their battle tactics.
I have several more books
just waiting to be translated.
Our captain will be speaking the
language of theirs.
You should've heard him
babbling on the Blackfoot.
Really? A fellow linguist?
Oh. Capital!
Oh come on Sir.
a word or two is very fun.
Just "hello" or "Goodbye''.
No.No..Cut its tongue and boil in the oil.
Early this morning we have a dull work.
so it is bed time. isn't it?
I once had a dread fascination for scalp.
I never understood its technique.
Imagine someone who hates you
with the uppermost intensity.
Grabbing in hand full of your hair
while you are lying prostrate and helpless.
And scraping a dull blade of
a rusted knife on your scalp...
with the soulless emotion.
and let your imagination grasp
you can. Mr. Graham.
the effect of a strong. quick
jerk-out on the turf of your hair.
to release clinging part.
of course you have. of your nervous system.
You will have some idea of
what the hell it is to be scalped.
Mr. Graham.
How soon can you translate those books?
Right away.
Just delighted to do it.
with your such an interest in Samurai.
I don't give a damn about the Samurai.
I want to know my enemy.
I shalll not sleep until it is done.
Ah... foggy
Have a good night.
Can I get your answer?
This is a pureness expedition. Captain.
Colonel Bagley. these people have
nothing to do with the race.
Good night. Sir.
Running now. boys.
Fire!
I suppose we should be grateful
for our fire army to shoot in the same direction.
could not put it better myself. Sir.
Rifle butt against your shoulder.
Eye down the side. now slowly...
Fire!
Well done.
You've got that done.
Nathan...
Katsumoto attacked the railroad
in the border of his province.
we cannot govern a country
in which we cannot travel freely.
He must be stopped now.
My railroad is a priority for this country.
They are not ready.
The rebels don't have a single rifle.
They're savages with bows and arrows.
whose sole occupation for the
last 1000 years has been at war.
You have superior fire power and a larger force.
I am ordering the regiment to
move against the rebel Katsumoto.
You will track him down and engage him.
Mr. Graham...
tell these men to fire at me.
I beg your pardon?
Tell these men if he does not shoot me...
I will kill him.
Captain. could I make them awarded?
Kill him.
Kill him
Time to give it up.
Stop!
Load.
Load
Faster!
Shoot me. damn it.
Fire!
Fire! Fire! [Japanese]
They are not ready.
The regiment leaves at 6:00 A.M.
1.000 miles of rail track laid in
less than 2 years.
It's astonished.
No more owns all these.
As soon as we exempt
with the Samurai. Oh yes.
How do you intend to find Katsumoto?
Don't worry. Mr. Graham.
I assure you...
he will find us.
Move!
Hold your position!
Yoshino Province. 1876.
First Company. follow up the back line around me!
Second Company. follow up
First Company.
Third and Fourth Company follow up!
To be at my command!
- Where is Hasegawa?
- Unclear. he refused to fight against Katsumoto.
- Come on now!
- Captain Algren...
we are not here for combatness.
Then who's gonna lead these men?
Their own officers. for Chris sake.
let's move to the rear.
I'll be present there.
Change for the rear.
- Mr. Graham. you'll accompany me to the rear. okay?
- Of course.
Sergeant Gant. report to the rear.
Seize the disposition of the supply train.
Sergeant Gant. did you hear my order?
I did hear it. Sir.
Good. then obey it.
Now!
No disrespecting intended. Sir.
we should look up our ass.
- Load!
Samurai come.
You will be fine. Son.
- Assume firing position!
Fire on my order only!
Hold your fire!
Reload!
Hold the line!
Fire! Fire!
Translate it: Fall back!
Gant!
He's mine.
Stop!
Take him away.
What is your name?
Insolent swine! Answer!
Leave him be.
This is my son's village.
We are deep in the mountains
and the winter is coming.
You cannot escape.
It's surely good.
My Lord. why do you spare the arbarian?
He is ashamed in defeat.
He should kill himself.
This is not their custom.
Then...
...I will kill him.
Father...
I don't think...
Ujio...
...there will be plenty of killing to come.
For now...
...we will learn about our new enemy.
Keep him alive.
He's in bad shape.
Sake...
Sake?
Taka will take care of you.
Sake...
Let him drink. aunt.
No. That will not do.
This is my village.
This is my house.
Please...sake..
Sugay!
No!
I told you!
Morning.
Over there.
Over there!
What's your name?
You have a name. don't you?
Naomei?
Naomai?
You don't know what I'm saying. do you?
I know why you don't talk.
You're angry. You're angry
because I made you wear a dress.
Son of a bitch.
This temple was built by my
family 1.000 years ago.
My name is Katsumoto.
What is your name?
Are my words not correct?
I will practise my English with you...
if you would honor me...
You keep me alive just to speak English?
What do you want?
To know my enemy.
I've seen what you did with your enemies.
The warriors in its country do not kill?
They don't cut their heads off
to free the kneeling men.
General Hasegawa asked me to help him end his life.
A samurai cannot stand the shame of the defeat.
I was honored to cut off his head.
Many of our customs seem strange to you...
and the same is true of yours.
For example...
Not to introduce yourself is considered
extremely rude. even among enemies.
Nathan Algren.
I am honored to meet you.
I have enjoyed this conversation in English.
I have questions.
I have introduced myself.
you have introduced yourself.
This is a very good conversation.
I have questions!
- Questions come later.
- Who was the warrior in the red armor?
My brother-in-law. Hirotaro.
and woman who cares for me?
My sister. Hirotaro's wife.
Her name is Taka.
I killed her husband?
It was a good death!
You! Come... please...
Thank you.
Douzo! [Japanese] (please!)
He smells like the pigs. Tell my
brother I cannot stand this.
Why don't you tell him?
At least make him take a bath.
Nicely done!
They may be children.
but they are strong.
You try.
Fight!
Muyamini [Japanese]
(How absurd you are!)
Put down the sword.
Drop it!
I just realised...
I've been remiss. Forgive me I...
forget to thank you for
looking out for me yesterday.
It's your job. correct?
Protecting me.
Well done. "Bob".
You don't mind if I call you "Bobby"?
I knew a Bob once.
God. he's a grist mill.
You hear this man. Bob?
Ujio was teaching you
the way of Japanese sword.
Yes. indeed.
You fought against the red indians?
Yes.
Tell me the real part in this war.
- Why?
- I wish to learn.
Read the book.
I'd rather to have a good conversation.
- Why?
- Because...
to read a book constitutes a work.
So...
you were the General of your army?
No... I was a Captain.
This is a lower rank?
a middle rank
Then who was the General?
Don't you have a rebellion to lead?
People in your country do not like conversation?
He was a Lieutenant-Colonel.
His name is Custer.
I know this name.
He killed many warriors.
Aye. Many warriors.
So he was a good General.
No. he wasn't a good General.
he was arrogant. foolhardy.
and he got massacred because
he took a single battallion...
...against 2.000 angry indians.
2.000 indians?
How many men for Custer?
- 200.
- I like this General Custer.
He was a murderer.
who fell in love with his own legend.
and his troops died for it.
I think this is a very good death.
Oh. maybe you can
have one just like it someday.
If it is my destiny.
What you want from me?
What do you want for yourself?
What are you doing?
Why we have these conversations?
What the hell am I doing here?
In spring. the snow will melt
and passage will open.
Until that time. you are here.
Good day. Captain.
1876... day unknown. month unknown.
I continue to live among these unusual people.
I'm a captive and I cannot escape.
Mostly I'm treated with a kind of a mind of regret
as if I was a street dog. an unwelcome guest.
Everyone is polite.
everyone smiles and bows.
But beneath this courtesy.
I detect their deep breath of moral feeling.
Higen
They are intriguing people.
From the moment they wake...
they devote themselves to the
perfection of whatever they pursue.
I've never seen such a discipline.
I'm surprised to learn that
the word "Samurai" means...
..."to serve".
and Katsumoto believes his rebellion
to be in the service of the Emperor.
Please forgive. too many mind.
Too many mind?
Mind the sword.
mind the people watch. mind the enemy.
Too many mind.
No mind.
Thank you. More rice?
Taka. He spoke Japanese!
Eat a lot. Don't polite.
Not so fast. What is this?
Hashi ( Chopstick )
Hai ( Yes ). Hashi.
How can he understand?
Hana ( Nose )
Top knot.
Mimi ( Ear )
Chawan ( Rice bowl )
Not so fast.
I am Algren.
Algren.
all-gren.
- Nobutada.
- Magojiro.
- Higen.
Taka.
Brother. please make him leave.
I cannot stand it.
Is he so repulsive?
The shame is unbearable.
I ask permission to end my life.
You will do as you are told!
You'd rather I kill him to avenge your husband?
Yes
Hirotaro tried to kill the American.
It was karma.
Yes. I know
Forgive my weakness.
There must be some reason why he is here.
It is beyond my understanding.
She has been very kind to me.
She is honored to help my guest in her house.
Winter. 1877.
What does it mean to be a Samurai?
To devote yourself utterly to a set of moral principles.
To seek the stillness of your mind.
And to master the realm of sword.
He is getting better. no?
But still so ugly.
Cold
Samui ( Cold )
Samui
Watashi samui
( I feel cold )
Watashi nimo samui.
( I feel cold too )
also...watashi
the fire.
Hi [Japanese] ( fire )
Hidaga
Moeru ( to burn )
Moeru... to burn.
Moeru
Hideiga moeru
Hidaga moeru
No. please.
Japanese men do not help with this.
I am not Japanese.
I'm sorry
gomennasai ( Excuse me )
Gomennasai for your husband...Hirotaro.
He did his duty.
You did your duty.
I accept your apology...
hahaue ( mom )
What are you doing here?
We go inside.
Have you washed your hand?
Spring. 1877. It is much longer
than I have stayed in one place...
...since I left the farm at 17.
There are so much here
that I will never understand.
I have never been a church-going man.
And what I have seen on the field of battle
have left me to question on God's purpose.
But there is indeed something spiritual in this place.
and though it may forever be obscure to me.
I cannot but be aware of its power.
I do know it is here that I have known
my first untroubled sleep in many years.
You gotta get the ball!
Go get it!
Not me
You gotta get the ball!
the ball!
Ujio will win in three moves.
In five!
Next in five moves.
In six.
A draw!
Who is this amateur?
Katsumoto!
Protect Katsumoto!
Protect our Lord!
Lord. please go inside!
A perfect blossom is a rare thing.
You could spend your life looking for them...
and it will not be a wasted life.
Who sent those men to kill you?
I am writing a poem about a dream I had.
the tigers' eyes are like my own.
He comes from across a deep and trouble to see.
Was it the Emperor?
Omura?
If the Emperor wishes my death.
he is but to ask.
So it was Omura.
I'm having trouble finishing the poem.
Can you transact a last line?
I am not a writer.
Yes. you have written
many pages since you came here.
What has he told you?
You have nightmares.
Every soldier has nightmares.
Only one who is ashamed
of what he has done.
You have no idea what I have done.
Go away!
You have seen many things.
I have.
You do not fear that.
but sometimes you wish for it.
Is it not so?
Yes.
I hope so.
It just happens to a man
who has seen what we have seen.
And then I come to this place with my ancestors.
I will remember. like
these blossom. we are all dying.
To know life in every breath...
...every couple of tea.
every life we take.
the way of the warrior
The life in every breath.
That is "Bushido".
Hai. ( Yes )
The Emperor has granted the
safe passage to Tokyo.
We leave tomorrow.
- Good.
when I took this.
you were my enemy.
Excuse me.
No. so sorry. I am finishing.
I must go away.
Hai ( Yes )
You have been kind to me.
I won't forget
Algren-san.
Algren-san
Go!
Don't move!
Algren?
Algren. my God. you are alive.
Will you never cease to astonish?
Howitzer
Yes. indeed.
Soon the Emperor signs the damn trade agreement.
He gets the whole package...
including this particular item.
200 rounds a minute.
and the new cartridge just cut down on jamming.
I need a bath.
After living with those savages.
I can only imagine.
Welcome back. Captain.
You rise against me. my teacher.
No. Highness.
I rise against your enemies.
They are my advisors. like you.
They advise in their own interest.
I need advisors who know the modern world.
If I am no use. I will happily end my life.
No...
I need your voice in the council.
It is your voice we need. Highness.
You are a living God.
Do what you think is right.
I am a living God...
...as long as I do what they think is right.
What sad words you speak...
Forgive me for saying what a teacher must.
Have you forgotten your people?
Tell me what to do...
...my teacher.
You are Emperor. my Lord. not me.
You must find the wisdom for all of us.
Ah. gentlemen. come in.
Captain Algren. it seems you have
endured your captivity with little ill effect.
I was not ill-treated. Sir.
Mr. Omura. I have here
a draft of the arms agreement.
Captain Algren. I'm eager to know
how many Samurai have joined in Katsumoto.
I'm afraid I don't know.
You spent the entire winter in his encampment.
I was a prisoner.
Was it far to find his position?
has he acquired firearms?
Come man. tell us what you saw.
As you said. Colonel.
they are savages...
with bows and arrows.
- Sir. about...
- I'm sure your documents are in order.
ambassador. thank you.
If you leave them on my desk.
I'll have a read at my appropriate time.
With all due respect. Sir.
our president's patience is wearing thin.
Perhaps there's someone else
we should be speaking to.
With all due respect. ambassador.
Perhaps there's someone else
we should be speaking to.
For instance. French or the English.
or with any of the legations
waiting in the next room.
Yes. well. we should be looking
forward to hearing from you.
Good afternoon. gentlemen.
Captain Algren.
Perhaps you and I might
have a while in private.
Please. sit down.
May I offer you a whiskey?
No. thank you.
Katsumoto is an
extraordinary man. is he not?
He is a tribal leader.
I've known many of them.
But now who are Samurai.
their way is a great appeal.
I don't see others concerns me.
Ah. but it does.
You see. you were right. Captain Algren.
Last year we were not prepared to go to battle.
You were right and Colonel Bagley was wrong.
But now we are ready.
If Katsumoto is allowed to attract
the other Samurai to his cause.
we will have 10 years of barbarian.
This is something I will not allow.
Either I'll stop him in the council today.
or you will lead my army against him.
and with these new weapons.
you will crash him.
I appreciate the offer.
It is not an offer.
Mr. Omura. my contract
with you. was to train your army.
Then we will make a new contract.
One that recognizes the extraordinary
contribution you have made to the Emperor.
Do we understand each other?
Yes. we understand each other perfectly.
Then I am pleased.
Follow him.
If he goes anywhere near Katsumoto. kill him.
Captain Algren. what in heaven is this going on?
The diplomatic news are fast.
Omura has passed the laws against Samurais.
Mr. Graham. I need a drink.
He is your friend. Katsumoto.
we can come to go up against
the council this afternoon.
You. Samurai!
Don't you know about the order?
Oh my God. it starts.
Hey boy. are you listening?
No wonder the foreigners mock you.
Let's give this Samurai a haircut.
Cut off his top knot.
Get down! Kneel!
Captain Algren
Lower your weapons!
Who are you?
I am Captain Algren.
Stop!
Get down!
Let's go.
I'll take you home.
Okay
We must resist the western powers...
...by becoming powerful ourselves.
Our army. our economy must be strong.
Minister. you honor us.
It is my honor to rejoin this council.
Perhaps you are unaware
of the law against wearing sword.
I read every law carefully.
Yet you bring weapons into this chamber?
This chamber was protected by my sword when...
We need no protection.
We are a nation of laws.
We are a nation of whores.
selling ourselves...
If we are whores.
the Samurai made us this way.
I have not seen the
Omura family giving gold to the masses.
Minister Katsumoto.
it is with great regreat...
but I must ask you to remove your sword.
This sword serves the Emperor...
only he can command me to remove it.
The Emperor's voice is
too pure to be heard in this council.
Then. I must refuse to give up my sword.
Then regretfully. my guards will
accompany you to your home in Tokyo.
There you will await our summons.
I heard you are leaving
Omura offers my job and you run away.
I suppose I should thank you.
$500 a month. including
back pay for time spent...in captivity.
That is enough to come back
inside the barrel for the rest of your life.
You are welcome.
Well. and this is putting in my drawer.
Katsumoto is under arrest.
Omura won't let him last the night.
With Katsumoto dead. we should get
little trouble handling the rest of the rebellion.
Even without you.
Specially without you.
Just tell me one thing
What is but your own people that you hate so much?
Save us the trouble...
The Samurai are finished!
Stop!
Don't come any closer!
Don't stop.
Whatever you do. don't stop.
Minister Omura has commanded
us to photograph the traitor.
Stop! Somebody!
Bring that equipment here NOW!
Immediately!
You stop!
You insolent. useless son of a peasant dog!
How dare you show your sword in his presence!
Do you know who this is?
This is the President of the United States of America.
He is here to lead our armies
in victorious battle against the rebels!
It's not my responsibility...
Now get over there and help
those men with their equipment!
Carry the equipment.
President of the United States?
Sorry. I think I made you sick.
How is your poem coming?
The end is proving difficult.
This is Mr. Simon Graham.
He would like very much to take you a photograph.
This is an honor.
I thought you returned to America.
I decided to stay.
See if I could convince you to escape.
How do you think to do that?
Mr. Graham. perhaps you would
care to take pictures of my village.
I will be greatly honored.
My Lord!
My Lord. no!
Nobutada!
Father. let me stay.
It is my time.
My lord...
...we must go.
The Emperor could not hear my words.
His army will come here.
It is the end.
For 900 years. my ancestors
have protected our people.
Now...
I have failed them.
So you're taking your own life...
...in shame.
Shame for a life for "Service. Discipline. Compassion"
The way of the Samurai is not necessary any more.
Necessary?
What can be more necessary?
I'd rather die by the sword.
my own or my enemies'
Then let it be your enemies'.
Together. we will make the Emperor hear you.
He was a good man.
Will you fight the white men. too?
If they come here. yes.
Why?
Because they come to
destroy what I have come to love.
The way of Samurai is difficult for children.
he misses his father.
And he is angry because I am the cause of that.
No. He is angry because he fears you will die as well.
My father taught me it is glorious to die in battle.
That is what he believed.
I would be afraid to die in battle.
So would I
But you have been in many battles.
And I was always afraid.
I don't want you to go.
Algren
They are coming.
I take 2-4 regiments.
Come in the waves of a thousand.
- They may have a howitzer.
- It makes no difference.
They will come in the way
where we make up a stand.
How many men we have?
Maybe 500.
Like the general Custer. huh?
There was once a battle
at a place called Thermopylae.
300 brave Greeks held off
Persian army of a million men.
a million. you understand this number?
I understand this number.
For two days. the Greeks made them pay so dearly...
...the Persian army lost their strong taste for battle.
And they were defeated soon after.
What do you have in mind?
Take away the advantage of their guns.
I'm confident we can use that.
Move them close.
close enough for a sword.
You believe a man can change his destiny?
I think a man does what he can...
until his destiny is revealed.
May 25th. 1877.
This will be the last entry in this journal.
I try to give a true account of
what I've seen. what I've done.
I do not presume to understand the course of my life.
But I know I'm grateful to a part taken in all of this.
Even if for a moment.
Algren-san.
will you come with me?
If you wear this armor. it will honor us.
You will need this.
What does it say?
I belong to the warrior in whom
the older ways have joined the new.
Good God!
Sir. The Imperial Army of
Japan demands your surrender.
If you and your fellows lay down your arms.
you will not be harmed.
This is not possible.
as Mr. Omura knows
Captain Algren...
we will show you no quarter.
You rise against us.
You will be the same as they are.
I will look for you on the field.
- Captain Algren
- Yes. Mr. Graham
Perhaps you could use this for your book.
Yes. I will.
Captain...
- Godspeed.
- Mr. Graham.
Stand up straight!
Well. they won't surrender.
Are we ready?
Get into your position!
Fire for test!
Test!
Adjust the battery
Ready!
Fire!
They are covering their retreat.
You see. even the mightiest Samurai
cannot stand up to our howitzer.
It seems they are attacked.
I advise sending skirmish first.
Nonsense! Full attack!
Step forward!
They are coming.
Wait for a volley.
Second volley.
Set fire
What on earth!
What is happening?
Shoot!
Their attack has been stopped.
Sending the rest of the regiment.
What happened to the warriors in Thermopylae?
Dead to the last man.
Algren-san
Son of a bitch.
They're once again winning.
There'll be two more regiments up here this time.
we won't be able to stop them again.
You don't have to die here.
I should've died so many times as before.
Now you live again.
Yes.
It is not your time.
It's not over.
Cannon. prepare to fire!
Prepare to fire!
This is madness.
Is he going to attack?
Yes.
He is defeated.
He must accept his shame.
Kill them back. Block them.
Now!
My horse!
Fire!
Attempt
Fire at will!
Bring up the new guns!
Prepare the new guns!
Fire!
Quickly! Quickly!
Stop firing!
Idiots. keep on firing!
Stop firing! Stop!
No...
Shoot! Kill Katsumoto! Kill the American!
You have your honor again.
Let me die with mine.
Help me up.
Are you ready?
I will miss our conversations.
perfect...
They are all perfect.
On behalf of the United States of America.
the signing of this treaty...
will usher in an era of
unprecedented prosperity...
and cooperation between our two great nations.
On behalf of the Emperor... we are pleased
to have successfully concluded this...
...negotiation.
He is here?
Highness. if we could just
conclude the matter at hand...
This is Katsumoto's sword.
He would have wanted you to have it...
...that the strength of the Samurai be with you always.
Enlightened One.
we all weep for Katsumoto. but...
He hoped. with his last breath...
...that you would remember the ancestors
who held this sword...
...and what they died for.
Your Highness.
You were with him at the end?
Hai. ( Yes )
Emperor. this man fought against you.
Your Highness. if you believe me
to be your enemy. Command me...
and I will gladly take my life.
I have dreamed of a unified Japan.
...of a country strong and independent and modern...
and now. we have railroads. and
cannons. western clothing.
But...
we cannot forget who we are...
...or where we come from.
Ambassador Swanbeck...
I have concluded that
this treaty is not in the best interests of my people.
Sir. if I may...
So sorry. but you may not.
This is an outrage!
Enlighted One. we should discuss this...
Omura...
...you have done quite enough.
Everything I have done.
I have done for my country.
Then you will not mind
when I seize your family's assets...
...and present them as my gift to the people.
You disgrace me.
If your shame is too unbearable...
I offer you this sword.
Tell me how he died.
I will tell you how he lived.
And so the days of the Samurai had ended.
Nations. like men. it's
sometimes said. have their own destiny.
As for the American Captain.
no one knows what became of him.
Some say he died of his wounds.
Others...
...he returned to his own country.
But I like to think. he may have at last
found some small measure of peace...
...that we all seek. and few of us ever find.
English subtitle by Do My Best
Do you want subtitles for any video?
-=[ ai.OpenSubtitles.com ]=-